# This fork of <ins>**cityjson-qgis-plugin**</ins> includes fixes, improvements and support for new features

## Key Updates:

- **New feature(s)**: Support for additional semantic surface attributes when loading a CityJSON file using option ***Load semantic surfaces (as individual features)***.

  Compatible with CityJSON files generated by [**3DBM-Plus**](https://github.com/FLeroux23/3DBM-Plus), a custom version of [***3d-building-metrics***](https://github.com/tudelft3d/3d-building-metrics).

  **Reference**: *Anna Labetski, Stelios Vitalis, Filip Biljecki, Ken Arroyo Ohori, & Jantien Stoter (2023). 3D building metrics for urban morphology. International Journal of Geographical Information Science, 37(1): 36-67. [DOI: 10.1080/13658816.2022.2103818](https://doi.org/10.1080/13658816.2022.2103818).*
- **Fixes & Improvements**:
     - Fixed error: 'QgsPolygon3DSymbol' object has no attribute 'setMaterial'.
     - Fixed an issue where empty layer(s) with *[LoD: None]* were unnecessarily created when the option to load LoD "As layers" was selected.
     - Removed the behavior where a group layer was created even when only a single layer was loaded.
 
- **New feature(s)**:
     - Added a CheckBox to control whether **child objects** inherit **parent attributes**.
     - Added a ComboBox to select a specific LoD to import (e.g., "All", "1.2, "1.3", "2.2", etc.).

## Installation
Open the Command Prompt (CMD) and navigate to the directory where your QGIS plugins are stored. For example:
```
C:\Users\<user>\AppData\Roaming\QGIS\QGIS3\profiles\default\python\plugins
```
If you're unable to find this directory:
- Launch QGIS 3.
- Go to `Settings`->`User Profiles`->`Open Active Profile Folder`
- This will open the folder containing your plugins.

Once you're in the correct directory, run the following Git command to install the plugin:
```
git clone -b main https://github.com/FLeroux23/CityJSON-loader
```
To update the plugin later, use the following command:
```
git pull origin main
```
___
# CityJSON Loader for QGIS 3

This is a Python plugin for QGIS 3 which adds support for loading [CityJSON](http://www.cityjson.org) datasets in QGIS.

## Installation

"Stable" releases are available through the official QGIS plugins repository.

* In QGIS 3 select `Plugins`->`Manage and Install Plugins...`
* In the `All` panel select the `CityJSON Loader` plugin from the list.

## Use

After the installation, there must be a new submenu under the `Vector` menu. Select `CityJSON Loader`->`Load CityJSON...` in order to open the CityJSON dialog window. You can select a dataset and add it from there.

You may enable the `Split layers according to object type` option in order to load different object types as different layers in QGIS.

### 3D view in QGIS 3.0

CityJSON Loader automatically enables 3D renderer in QGIS versions 3.2 onwards.
However, if you are using QGIS 3.0 you have to enable it manually.
This can be done as follows:
* Right-click on the layer and select `Properties...`
* Select the `3D View` panel and check the `Enable 3D renderer` option.
* In QGIS 3 menu select `View`->`New 3D Map View` in order to see the 3D geometry.

## Development

You may use `make` to assist you while developing.

The following rules can be useful:
* `make deploy`: will automatically copy the required files to your QGIS plugins' folder. **BEWARE:** *it only works out-of-the-box for macOS. For other operating systems you might have to change the `QGISDIR` variable in `Makefile`.*
* `make package VERSION=GIT_REF`: (where *GIT_REF* is a branch, tag or any other git ref) will make a zip package to be installed manually from QGIS or uploaded to the QGIS plugins' repository.
